README.md, before:

# Distributed ML Code Execution Platform

A distributed machine learning code execution platform that allows users to write and execute ML code in a web-based environment. The platform supports parallel execution of ML tasks using Kubernetes, RabbitMQ, and Redis.

## Features

- Web-based code editor with Monaco (VS Code's editor)
- Predefined ML functions for common tasks:
  - `data_fetch`: Load data from CSV or NPY files
  - `data_preprocessing`: Handle data preprocessing with scaling and train-test split
  - `train`: Train ML models (Linear Regression, Random Forest, Neural Network)
- Real-time code execution status updates
- Distributed execution using Kubernetes
- Task queue management with RabbitMQ
- Result storage with Redis

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9+
- Docker
- Kubernetes cluster
- RabbitMQ
- Redis

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-name>
```

2. Install Python dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Build Docker images:
```bash
docker build -t code-execution-platform:latest .
docker build -t code-execution-worker:latest -f Dockerfile.worker .
```

4. Deploy to Kubernetes:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/deployment.yaml
```

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```env
RABBITMQ_HOST=localhost
REDIS_HOST=localhost
REDIS_PORT=6379
```

## Usage

1. Start the FastAPI server:
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

2. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000`

3. Select a template or write custom code:
   - Basic ML Pipeline: Predefined template for common ML tasks
   - Custom Code: Write your own code using the available ML functions

4. Click "Run Code" to execute your code

## Available ML Functions

### data_fetch
```python
data = data_fetch('path/to/your/data.csv')
```
Loads data from CSV or NPY files.

### data_preprocessing
```python
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test, scaler = data_preprocessing(
    data=data,
    target_column='target',
    test_size=0.2
)
```
Preprocesses data with scaling and train-test split.

### train
```python
model = train(
    X_train=X_train,
    y_train=y_train,
    model_type='linear'  # Options: 'linear', 'random_forest', 'neural_network'
)
```
Trains ML models with different algorithms.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: FastAPI with WebSocket support
- **Code Editor**: Monaco Editor (VS Code's editor)
- **Task Queue**: RabbitMQ
- **Result Storage**: Redis
- **Container Orchestration**: Kubernetes
- **ML Libraries**: scikit-learn, PyTorch, pandas, numpy

## Security Considerations

- Code execution is sandboxed
- Timeout limits for code execution
- Input validation and sanitization
- Secure WebSocket connections

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Monaco Editor for the code editor
- FastAPI for the web framework
- RabbitMQ for message queuing
- Redis for result storage
- Kubernetes for container orchestration

Commit message:

end-to-end working with worker active, need to work on output for user on frontend

README.md, after:

# Distributed ML Code Execution Platform

A distributed machine learning code execution platform that allows users to write and execute ML code in a web-based environment. The platform supports parallel execution of ML tasks using Kubernetes, RabbitMQ, and Redis.

## Features

- Web-based code editor with Monaco (VS Code's editor)
- Predefined ML functions for common tasks:
  - `data_fetch`: Load data from CSV or NPY files
  - `data_preprocessing`: Handle data preprocessing with scaling and train-test split
  - `train`: Train ML models (Linear Regression, Random Forest, Neural Network)
- Real-time code execution status updates
- Distributed execution using Kubernetes
- Task queue management with RabbitMQ
- Result storage with Redis

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9-3.12 (PyTorch compatibility)
- Docker
- Kubernetes cluster
- RabbitMQ
- Redis

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd <repository-name>
```

2. Install Python dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Build Docker images:
```bash
docker build -t code-execution-platform:latest .
docker build -t code-execution-worker:latest -f Dockerfile.worker .
```

4. Deploy to Kubernetes:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/deployment.yaml
```

## Configuration

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following variables:

```env
RABBITMQ_HOST=localhost
REDIS_HOST=localhost
REDIS_PORT=6379
```

## Usage

1. Start the FastAPI server:
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

2. In a separate terminal, start the worker process:
```bash
python app/worker.py
```

3. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8000`

4. Select a template or write custom code:
   - Basic ML Pipeline: Predefined template for common ML tasks
   - Custom Code: Write your own code using the available ML functions

5. Click "Run Code" to execute your code

Note: Both the FastAPI server and worker process must be running simultaneously for the code execution to work properly. The worker process is responsible for executing the code and storing results in Redis, while the FastAPI server handles the web interface and WebSocket communication.

## Available ML Functions

### data_fetch
```python
data = data_fetch('path/to/your/data.csv')
```
Loads data from CSV or NPY files.

### data_preprocessing
```python
X_train, X_test, y_train, y_test, scaler = data_preprocessing(
    data=data,
    target_column='target',
    test_size=0.2
)
```
Preprocesses data with scaling and train-test split.

### train
```python
model = train(
    X_train=X_train,
    y_train=y_train,
    model_type='linear'  # Options: 'linear', 'random_forest', 'neural_network'
)
```
Trains ML models with different algorithms.

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: FastAPI with WebSocket support
- **Code Editor**: Monaco Editor (VS Code's editor)
- **Task Queue**: RabbitMQ
- **Result Storage**: Redis
- **Container Orchestration**: Kubernetes
- **ML Libraries**: scikit-learn, PyTorch, pandas, numpy

## Security Considerations

- Code execution is sandboxed
- Timeout limits for code execution
- Input validation and sanitization
- Secure WebSocket connections

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Monaco Editor for the code editor
- FastAPI for the web framework
- RabbitMQ for message queuing
- Redis for result storage
- Kubernetes for container orchestration
